README.md, before:

# Static-Node.js-Express-portfolio-Site-Project-5
Portfolio website that displays my prior work during the tap program.

So far you've worked with a lot of "client-side" JavaScript. Which is just an industry way of saying JavaScript in the browser. All of the JavaScript you've written for the first five projects in this Techdegree is run right in the browser. Now it's time to continue your journey out of the browser and start writing some powerful "server-side" JavaScript.

In this project, you'll create a gorgeous portfolio site to showcase the great projects you've built. The site will contain a modern landing page, an about page where you'll have a chance to share contact info, practice your elevator pitch and talk a little about yourself, and a series of project pages to show off and detail at least your first five projects from this Techdegree.

>You'll create a JSON file to store all the data about the projects you've created.

You'll use Pug to complete provided templates that utilize the JSON to generate the markup that is ultimately displayed in the browser.

You'll use Node.js and Express to:

* Import the required dependencies
* Link the JSON with the Pug templates
* Set up routes to handle requests
* Set up the middleware to utilize static files like CSS
* Handle errors
* Set up a server to serve the project
* After building this project, you should have a comfortable working knowledge of Node.js, Express and Pug, setting up a server, handling requests, working with server-side JavaScript, and building a powerful and modern back end project. And you'll have an important new skill to make you more marketable as a Full Stack JavaScript Developer.

## Project Instructions 
____

 **To complete this project, follow the instructions below. If you get stuck, ask a question on Slack or in the Treehouse Community.**

 **1. Initialize your project** 
  * Open the command line, navigate to your project, and run the npm init command to set up your package.json file. |
  * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **2. Add your dependencies** 
 * At a minimum, your project will need Express and Pug installed via the command line. 
 * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **3. Handle files and folders that shouldn't be stored in your repo** 
 * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **4. Images** 
 * Create an images folder in your directory to store your images.
 * Add a profile pic of yourself that you would feel comfortable sharing with potential employers. It should present well at 550px by 350px.
 * Take screenshots of your projects. You will need at least two screenshots for each project.
   - A main shot for the landing page which should be a square image that can display well at 550px by 550px.
   - Between one and three additional images that can be any dimensions you want, but work well in this project as landscape images that present well at 1200px by 550px.
  
 **5. Add your project data to your directory** 
* Create a data.json file at the root of your directory
* The recommended structure for your JSON is to create an object literal that contains a single property called projects. The value of projects is an array containing an object for each project you wish to include in your portfolio.
* Each project object should contain the following properties:
    - id give each project a unique id, which can just be a single digit number starting at 0 for the first project, 1 for the second project, etc.
    - project_name
    - description
    - technologies - an array of strings containing a list of the technologies used in the project
    - live_link - link to the live version of the project, which can be hosted for free on GitHub pages. Check the project resources list for a helpful reference link.
    - github_link - link to the GitHub repo
    - image_urls - an array of strings containing file paths from the views folder to the images themselves. You'll need a main image to be shown on the landing page, and three images to be shown on the project page.
**Note:** Feel free to add extra projects to this portfolio if you have them to show off.
**6.Setup your server, routes and middleware**
* Create an app.js file at the root of your directory.
* Add variables to require the necessary dependencies. You'll need to require:
  - Express
  - Your data.json file
- **Optionally**- the path module which can be used when setting the absolute path in the express.static function.
* Set up your middleware:
  - set your “view engine” to “pug”
  - use a static route and the express.static method to serve the static files located in the public folder
* Set your routes. You'll need:
  - An "index" route (/) to render the "Home" page with the locals set to data.projects|
  - An "about" route (/about) to render the "About" page|
  - Dynamic "project" routes (/project or /projects) based on the id of the project that render a customized version of the Pug project template to show off each project. Which means adding data, or "locals", as an object that contains data to be passed to the Pug template.
* Finally, start your server. Your app should listen on port 3000, and log a string to the console that says which port the app is listening to.

**7.Handle errors**
* If a user navigates to a non-existent route, or if a request for a resource fails for whatever reason, your app should handle the error in a user friendly way.
* Add an error handler to app.js that sets the error message to a user friendly message, and sets the status code.
* Log out a user friendly message to the console when the app is pointed at a URL that doesn't exist as a route in the app, such as /error/error.
* Refer to the video on Error handling Middleware, which is linked in the project resources list.


**8.Complete your Pug files**
* Go through each of the four Pug templates to inject your data. The Pug files contain comments that detail each change you will need to make. You can and should delete these comments when you are finished with this step. But you should wait to do so until everything is working as it should, in case you need to refer to these notes during development.
* Leave the example HTML files in your project so your reviewer can reference them.
  
**Note:** Consider adding a target attribute set to _blank on the a tags for the live links to your projects so that they open in a new window.
Layout, CSS and styles
The layout of the finished project should match the provided mockups.
To really make this project your own, you should customize the CSS following the suggestions in the Extra Credit section at the bottom of this page.

**9. Layout, CSS and styles**
* The layout of the finished project should match the provided mockups.
* To really make this project your own, you should customize the CSS following the suggestions in the Extra Credit section at the bottom of this page.
  
**10. Add good code comments** 

**11. Cross-Browser consistency:**
* Google Chrome has become the default development browser for most developers. With such a selection of browsers for users to choose from, it's a good idea to get in the habit of testing your projects in all modern browsers.
  
**12. Review the "How you'll be graded" section**

**13. Quality Assurance and Project Submission Checklist**
* Perform QA testing on your project, checking for bugs, user experience and edge cases.
* Check off all of the items on the Student Project Submission Checklist.

**NOTE: Seeking assistance**

  * If you're feeling stuck or having trouble with this project:
  * Review material in the unit.
  * Practice your Google skills by finding different ways to ask the questions you have, paying close attention to the sort of results you get back depending on how your questions are worded.
  * Reach out to the team on Slack.
**14.NOTE: What you submit is what will get reviewed.**
* When you submit your project, a snapshot is taken of your repository, and that is what the reviewer will see. Consequently, any changes you make to your repo after you submit will not be seen by the reviewer. So before you submit, it's a smart idea to do a final check to make sure everything in your repo is exactly what you want to submit.

**Extra Credit**
To get an "exceeds" rating, complete all of the steps below:
1. Customize the package.json file
    * Set up your package.json file so that running npm start will run the app.
2. Use error handling middleware to render a Pug template
    * Create a new Pug template in the views folder and name it error.pug. This Pug file should extend the layout, be set to block content, and display the error.message, error.status, and error.stack properties.
    * When the request URL is for a non-existent route, the error.pug template should be displayed in the browser along with the following properties:
      * error.message
      * error.status
      * error.stack
3. Customize the style
    * Change or add at least three of the following to make this project your own:
    * color
    * background color
    * font
    * box or text shadows
    * transitions or animations
    * add a logo 

## A note on my styling
I made a few color changes and made the project picture round. I attempted to make the site go along with my brand.

## Dependencies
____
After cloning to your machine and install npm.
~~~
npm install 
~~~
I use nodemone and with a quick `npm run start` command you can get up and running so make sure you install nodemon
~~~
npm install nodemon -D 
~~~
This project uses express.
~~~
npm install express --save
~~~

This project uses pug.
~~~ 
npm install pug
~~~

Commit message:

add extra credit changes to readme

README.md, after:

# Static-Node.js-Express-portfolio-Site-Project-5
Portfolio website that displays my prior work during the tap program.

So far you've worked with a lot of "client-side" JavaScript. Which is just an industry way of saying JavaScript in the browser. All of the JavaScript you've written for the first five projects in this Techdegree is run right in the browser. Now it's time to continue your journey out of the browser and start writing some powerful "server-side" JavaScript.

In this project, you'll create a gorgeous portfolio site to showcase the great projects you've built. The site will contain a modern landing page, an about page where you'll have a chance to share contact info, practice your elevator pitch and talk a little about yourself, and a series of project pages to show off and detail at least your first five projects from this Techdegree.

>You'll create a JSON file to store all the data about the projects you've created.

You'll use Pug to complete provided templates that utilize the JSON to generate the markup that is ultimately displayed in the browser.

You'll use Node.js and Express to:

* Import the required dependencies
* Link the JSON with the Pug templates
* Set up routes to handle requests
* Set up the middleware to utilize static files like CSS
* Handle errors
* Set up a server to serve the project
* After building this project, you should have a comfortable working knowledge of Node.js, Express and Pug, setting up a server, handling requests, working with server-side JavaScript, and building a powerful and modern back end project. And you'll have an important new skill to make you more marketable as a Full Stack JavaScript Developer.

## Project Instructions 
____

 **To complete this project, follow the instructions below. If you get stuck, ask a question on Slack or in the Treehouse Community.**

 **1. Initialize your project** 
  * Open the command line, navigate to your project, and run the npm init command to set up your package.json file. |
  * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **2. Add your dependencies** 
 * At a minimum, your project will need Express and Pug installed via the command line. 
 * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **3. Handle files and folders that shouldn't be stored in your repo** 
 * Don't forget to use the --save flag if you're using a version of npm prior to 5.0, to ensure that references to the dependencies are stored in your package.json file.
  
 **4. Images** 
 * Create an images folder in your directory to store your images.
 * Add a profile pic of yourself that you would feel comfortable sharing with potential employers. It should present well at 550px by 350px.
 * Take screenshots of your projects. You will need at least two screenshots for each project.
   - A main shot for the landing page which should be a square image that can display well at 550px by 550px.
   - Between one and three additional images that can be any dimensions you want, but work well in this project as landscape images that present well at 1200px by 550px.
  
 **5. Add your project data to your directory** 
* Create a data.json file at the root of your directory
* The recommended structure for your JSON is to create an object literal that contains a single property called projects. The value of projects is an array containing an object for each project you wish to include in your portfolio.
* Each project object should contain the following properties:
    - id give each project a unique id, which can just be a single digit number starting at 0 for the first project, 1 for the second project, etc.
    - project_name
    - description
    - technologies - an array of strings containing a list of the technologies used in the project
    - live_link - link to the live version of the project, which can be hosted for free on GitHub pages. Check the project resources list for a helpful reference link.
    - github_link - link to the GitHub repo
    - image_urls - an array of strings containing file paths from the views folder to the images themselves. You'll need a main image to be shown on the landing page, and three images to be shown on the project page.
**Note:** Feel free to add extra projects to this portfolio if you have them to show off.
**6.Setup your server, routes and middleware**
* Create an app.js file at the root of your directory.
* Add variables to require the necessary dependencies. You'll need to require:
  - Express
  - Your data.json file
- **Optionally**- the path module which can be used when setting the absolute path in the express.static function.
* Set up your middleware:
  - set your “view engine” to “pug”
  - use a static route and the express.static method to serve the static files located in the public folder
* Set your routes. You'll need:
  - An "index" route (/) to render the "Home" page with the locals set to data.projects|
  - An "about" route (/about) to render the "About" page|
  - Dynamic "project" routes (/project or /projects) based on the id of the project that render a customized version of the Pug project template to show off each project. Which means adding data, or "locals", as an object that contains data to be passed to the Pug template.
* Finally, start your server. Your app should listen on port 3000, and log a string to the console that says which port the app is listening to.

**7.Handle errors**
* If a user navigates to a non-existent route, or if a request for a resource fails for whatever reason, your app should handle the error in a user friendly way.
* Add an error handler to app.js that sets the error message to a user friendly message, and sets the status code.
* Log out a user friendly message to the console when the app is pointed at a URL that doesn't exist as a route in the app, such as /error/error.
* Refer to the video on Error handling Middleware, which is linked in the project resources list.


**8.Complete your Pug files**
* Go through each of the four Pug templates to inject your data. The Pug files contain comments that detail each change you will need to make. You can and should delete these comments when you are finished with this step. But you should wait to do so until everything is working as it should, in case you need to refer to these notes during development.
* Leave the example HTML files in your project so your reviewer can reference them.
  
**Note:** Consider adding a target attribute set to _blank on the a tags for the live links to your projects so that they open in a new window.
Layout, CSS and styles
The layout of the finished project should match the provided mockups.
To really make this project your own, you should customize the CSS following the suggestions in the Extra Credit section at the bottom of this page.

**9. Layout, CSS and styles**
* The layout of the finished project should match the provided mockups.
* To really make this project your own, you should customize the CSS following the suggestions in the Extra Credit section at the bottom of this page.
  
**10. Add good code comments** 

**11. Cross-Browser consistency:**
* Google Chrome has become the default development browser for most developers. With such a selection of browsers for users to choose from, it's a good idea to get in the habit of testing your projects in all modern browsers.
  
**12. Review the "How you'll be graded" section**

**13. Quality Assurance and Project Submission Checklist**
* Perform QA testing on your project, checking for bugs, user experience and edge cases.
* Check off all of the items on the Student Project Submission Checklist.

**NOTE: Seeking assistance**

  * If you're feeling stuck or having trouble with this project:
  * Review material in the unit.
  * Practice your Google skills by finding different ways to ask the questions you have, paying close attention to the sort of results you get back depending on how your questions are worded.
  * Reach out to the team on Slack.
**14.NOTE: What you submit is what will get reviewed.**
* When you submit your project, a snapshot is taken of your repository, and that is what the reviewer will see. Consequently, any changes you make to your repo after you submit will not be seen by the reviewer. So before you submit, it's a smart idea to do a final check to make sure everything in your repo is exactly what you want to submit.

**Extra Credit**
To get an "exceeds" rating, complete all of the steps below:
1. Customize the package.json file
    * Set up your package.json file so that running npm start will run the app.
2. Use error handling middleware to render a Pug template
    * Create a new Pug template in the views folder and name it error.pug. This Pug file should extend the layout, be set to block content, and display the error.message, error.status, and error.stack properties.
    * When the request URL is for a non-existent route, the error.pug template should be displayed in the browser along with the following properties:
      * error.message
      * error.status
      * error.stack
3. Customize the style
    * Change or add at least three of the following to make this project your own:
    * color
    * background color
    * font
    * box or text shadows
    * transitions or animations
    * add a logo 

## A note on my extra credit changes
I made a few color changes and made the project picture round. I attempted to make the site go along with my brand.
I styled rounded project images. I also added cool background images  and color change that go with my branding.

## Dependencies
____
After cloning to your machine and install npm.
~~~
npm install 
~~~
I use nodemone and with a quick `npm run start` command you can get up and running so make sure you install nodemon
~~~
npm install nodemon -D 
~~~
This project uses express.
~~~
npm install express --save
~~~

This project uses pug.
~~~ 
npm install pug
~~~
